the city of Lancaster has a 25-year
strategy that involves green
infrastructure to control stormwater
runoff and that 25-year strategy
includes improving all of our public
spaces through greening efforts and
building green streets and alleys and
green roofs increase tree canopy by
additional tree plantings throughout the
city and strategies like that this park
is one example of a park that we were
renovating anyhow and with most of the
recreational improvements that you see
in a park but we incorporated green
infrastructure in many different ways
we made horse basketball courts horse
driving lanes rain gardens bioswales
increased tree canopy and this park
alone controls or infiltrates almost
four million gallons a year of
stormwater throughout all the different
BMPs that are built throughout this part
Lancaster is one of 770 communities
around the country they have a combined
sewer system and that means that all of
the stormwater runoff from rooftops and
hard surfaces like roadways and parking
lots go directly into the same pipe as
the sanitary flow from buildings
eighty-five percent of the time we can
capture all of that flow and treat it at
our treatment plant but 15 percent of
the time where it's just too much water
too much of a downpour we have to
overflow into the river directly to the
Conestoga River at five different
locations since the treatment plant
would be overwhelmed if we were to
transmit all that flow to a treatment
plant so that generates about 750
million gallons a year of overflow which
we are required through our long-term
control plan that was approved by DEP
and EPA to build large storage tanks to
capture all of that when EPA started
accepting your infrastructure as an
alternative to gray infrastructure we
asked epi if we could reevaluate our
long-term control plan and see if we can
man how much of that of that flow that
we can manage through greening practices
and to my surprise we actually can
eliminate all of that if we if we
continue to build as we're building
throughout the city with the green
infrastructure
this project was an intersection
improvement project we had problems with
lots of accidents at this intersection
and lots of residents complaining about
vehicles their vehicles being struck in
front of their property
there was a merge lane that was on the
East Walnut Street that traffic would
come up a plum street and not not stop
and not merge as the
and often caused accidents we also had a
lot of localized flooding in the center
section because
God read a lot of storm water ponding in
this intersection so
built a lot of rain gardens
place up the merge Lee we
patio is force and stormwater
landscape beds that's around
and we get a one stormwater management
over - yeah
so there are lots of lots of resources
that are available on the website if you
google green infrastructure you can get
information on how to build a rain
garden on your property or how to
disconnect your downspout and install a
rain barrel that can be used for
watering your garden or landscaping you
can even set up a small pump from those
barrels
you saw the trickling filter a little
trickling irrigation system for your
landscaping there are lots of resources
that you can do planting trees is
probably one of the best things you can
do especially in urban environments most
urban environments want to have a tree
canopy at 40 to 45 percent and like
Lancaster we have a twenty-eight percent
tree canopy and we have lots of trees
that we need to plant not only does it
help me in stormwater but it curbs a
heat island effect in future property
value so
right